Ratelimit metrics docs (#2133)
solo-io/gloo: docs/content/security/rate_limiting/metrics/_index.md

---
title: Metrics (Enterprise)
weight: 45

> description: Use prometheus metrics to determine alert when rate-limit rule breaches are close or occur.

Author: nit, grammar
```suggestion
description: Use prometheus metrics to determine when requests are near or over rate-limits.
```

---

In this tutorial we will see how to use the rate-limit service's default prometheus metrics to alert when rules are
near breach, and alert once broken.

{{% notice note %}}

> For **Gloo Enterprise**, release 1.2.1, you will need to enable rate-limit metrics using the following helm values:

Reviewer: Is this just for that one release or for all the future ones as well? In case of the latter I would be more clear about it.

Author: Just for that one release. Once 1.2.2 is out, I'd like to update latest to say "These docs were written against 1.2.2 or later"

Author: I'll update to be clearer anyways

On the left side there is a bell, hover on it and select alerting -> notification channels. This should show the
following:

![Create Notification Channel]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/security/rate_limiting/metrics/CreateNotificationChannel.png" %}})

For the sake of example, choose email, and save. We have not configured SMTP for Grafana, so the alerts won't actually
get delivered.

Now let's create a dashboard and alert for the metric you'd like to alert on.

Go to the main menu and select "create a dashboard". Fill in the PromQL query and as follows:

![Create Dashboard]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/security/rate_limiting/metrics/CreateDashboard.png" %}})

In the alert page, you should see the email destination you created as a valid destination. Select it, and save your
dashboard:

![Alert Setup]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/security/rate_limiting/metrics/AlertSetup.png" %}})

### Further Drill Down

Sometimes you'd like to further drill down into the offending requests, as well as requests that contributed to
rate-limit rule breaches. If the default metrics aren't enough, the next recommended course of action is to do some

> analysis of your access logs. We have a simple access logs example

Reviewer: Nit: wording 
```suggestion
analysis of your access logs. To get started, you can check out our access logs example
```
